OK,
guys.
Now here's another question that I get asked frequently on.
That is,
can you look up from multiple inputs to return a single V look of value on again?
The answer is yes.
But first,
let's have a look at another inherent floor with the lookups.
Now you'll notice when we've done very lookups before.
Let me just temporarily create a cell over here to import something.
So we type Luca,
would you?
A strange look up equals three.
Look up open brackets.
We're looking at that comer.
We're looking over here and we want to return the national insurance number.
1234 full.
Come for Colin.
Full comment.
False enter.
Fantastic.
So we can see now that we have successfully looked up Lucas national insurance number.
So it's looked down all of here until it's found Luke at its looked across,
and it's returned P E 101 to 60.
See,
exactly right.
But if we carry on looking down this column here,
we can see that we actually have another Luca in here who obviously has a completely
different national insurance number,
and we can carry on looking down and we find that we have even another Luke at in here on
another Luca just here.
So what happens if what you're actually looking for is the second or third or fourth or
40th or 400 Luca in your list?
And that's the inherent floor in V lookups that it will only ever find the first match.
Their one way around this is You can change the order of the issues in the sort.
But still,
even if the bottom Luca came to the top,
you would only ever get as far as that first.
Luca.
Whichever order these appeared in whatever sort order you apply to this,
only the first Luca that it finds will ever be returned on.
That may not necessarily be the one that you're looking for.
Okay,
so let's just delete.
Not for a second,
actually.
Leave it in there just so you can see when you don't load it.
There are a couple of ways of doing this.
The 1st 1 is introduced.
Help column.
I wanna help.
A column does.
Is it can Katyn eight's a couple of strings that you want to join together.
So I'm gonna do here is in before the first column.
I'll leave that one,
Meritus.
So I'm just gonna highlight the first color on there.
Right click and I'm going to choose Insert on.
I'm gonna movil the rows over to the right.
And here I'm gonna insert my help a column so I just call it Help on what I'm gonna do is
build a can capture nation cattle on what I want to join is the first name comma on the
last name.
So I'm just joining those two strings together.
Close the rackets hit Enter.
So now we can see if I auto size that that we now have Connor Phillips Copy that all the
way down.
So we have now a concoct in ated entry called Connor Phillips.
Harry Mitchell Oscar Kelly Luke early on a phenomenon Lou Camilla on then on and on Luca
Miller again.
Way have to Luca Miller's.
That's a catastrophe.
Welcome to that.
Shortly on Luca Brown.
Okay,
so now let me just widen those.
What we're going to do is enter to look ups.
So what we're gonna say is Luca,
this is where the years of his entering on,
we're gonna type Lee on.
We want to return the national insurance number.
So what we're going to do now is use this column as our index in RV.
Look up.
But I look at value is going to be this cell on this cell joined together.
So let's do that.
So we're gonna type equals V.
Look up.
Open brackets.
Now,
look at value is a concocted nation off these two cells here.
So what we're gonna type is con captain,
eight cats in a sack.
Oh,
from records this cell calmer.
And this cell,
we're not going to drag the formula around.
So not making it an absolute cell reference is fine in this instance.
So there's I can Curtin eight close brackets on that will finish the concatenation part of
the formula comma,
Now we're going to do is highlight our data table,
which is this area just here.
We can include the Hedda's if we want to eso our no concur tin ated value of Lucca.
Lee will appear in the first column on We want to return the national insurance number.
So 12345 So we want to go comma five comma,
false and close brackets enter.
So they go now we confined that Luca Lee swelling Luke Elise.
National insurance number is P E 101 to 60 c.
Which exactly correct.
But if we chose our next Luca Luca Miller,
we can just change the the entry in here to Miller.
And you can see that now.
Luca Miller returns Zen G 884813 b,
which is exactly correct.
And similarly,
we can choose Luca Brown Luca Brown on Luca Brown's national insurance number.
From down here is HS 970856 b anay,
go 970856 b.
So that works perfectly Now when you have to people with same name like Luca Miller here on
Luca Miller here,
you're probably going to need 1/3 string to concoct innate.
Now,
there's one quick way to find out how many entries you have with the same value on.
I'll just show you how to do that quickly.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna had another thing in here that say is What are we going
to say?
Let's say how many in the appear okay on,
let's have the answer appearing here,
So I'm just going to center emergence center that won't over to the right Hemi appear and
what we're gonna do.
I'm just gonna pretty that up a little bit on these.
This is absolutely not essential.
It also the formula.
I just try to make it look a little bit better.
And what we want to do here is we want to count.
How many times can Katyn ated string off Luca Brown in this instance appears in our help.
Cullen.
So what we want to do is on account if formula here.
So what we're gonna say equals can't if on what it's asking for first is the range.
And that's gonna be this range just here on what we want to look for the criteria.
Comma is going to be this cell and this cell.
So we can either right again Cata Nation or we could just click that cell type ampersand,
which does exactly the same thing.
Hit that cell and close the brackets and then hit Enter.
So they go.
We can see that Luca Brown only appears once in this column here.
And if we similarly we talked,
what was the other girl's name locally?
We Kenly,
I don't That's a boy or a girl.
Luke and Lee.
It's a girl.
It's a boy.
Luca Lee apologised.
Or any Lucas who are doing this course appears once.
But we may have Luca Miller on.
We can see now that Lucas Miller appears twice for no.
That's the first way of using the help of column now similarly,
and help Colin to what I'm going to do is almost exactly the same thing.
But rather than moving all of these columns over long and do is introduce my help of column
at the end.
So I'm just gonna had add Helper se equals we can either use that can cast a nation,
or we can literally just click,
hit the ampersand and click the next one,
which will do exactly the same thing,
innit?
Enter.
So there we have our help.
A column of column comment Phillips on that's copied all the way down on their What we
could do is either use the index match to look up backwards as we looked at before,
or we could copy the national insurance number,
which is the value we want a lock up.
Look up coffee on pace that in here and then just use this little bit of data table as RV
Look up.
So again,
let's set the sensor.
Who we got?
Let's say,
Harry Mitchell.
So Harry whips no spaces Ellen Mitchell and said,
I'm those two l's and make sure that wouldn't have worked.
Okay,
Harry Mitchell.
And again,
we're gonna do a can Cassin ated v Look up.
So be look up!
Oh,
Prum rackets andare.
Look at value.
Is that Andi?
That's comma table array is now just this little section at the end here because I can.
Caffeinated value appears here,
Comma.
We're looking Second column,
too.
Come out false and close brackets And there you go.
So that also works perfectly well.
All we've done is exactly the same thing as we did in the First Column,
but we've added a help.
A column to the end.
Okay,
so that's how you do it using a helper column.
But there is a more sophisticated way of doing this.
If you couldn't be bothered with adding helper columns into your database on that is using
the dark art of the array formula.
Okay,
See you in the next lecture.